So in here, we're going to let
me make this smaller again,
I'm gonna import everything
as react from react.
As you do,
I'm going to import graph QL from Gatsby.
I'm gonna import Gatsby
image because we wanna
use Gatsby images for
showing those episode cards.
And then, I want to import
our layout from components
away to folders in our components layout.
All right, so then I'm gonna
export a const called query,
because we wanna do a graph
QL query to get episode data.
So when we generate this file name,
what that's gonna cause Gatsby
to do is a very simple query.
The query that it's gonna do
is not gonna be filtered,
it's not gonna get the title or
the guest name.
It is only going to get the ID and
whatever the field is that it needs
to create the thing so slug current.
So this is all that's gonna be queried
by Gatsby during page creation but
that ID is all we need
to make a page query.
So in here, I'm going to create a new
query, we'll call this sanity episode and
we're going to pass in the ID And
that's a string.
So you remember when I said that
whenever Gatsby creates a page,
it puts things in page context?
That graph QL query is getting
handed to this page in context.
So we have both the ID and the slug
as a variable in our graph QL query.
I wanna get it this ID,
so I'm gonna use that, so
then I can pick instead of all sanity
episode, I'm gonna get one sanity episode.
So singular sanity episode and
I'm going to check
that the ID equals the ID
that was given to us.
Then, inside we want the title, I want
the description, I want the current slug.
Because we're gonna link
to it on Learn with Jason
site then we wanna get the YouTube ID.
I also wanna get the date and
we'll do that from now,
filter again because I
want it to be relative.
I'm gonna get the image and
here's a cool thing that sanity does.
Sanity is designed to support
Gatsby image data by default,
so we don't actually need to do anything.
We can just use sanity and it will
automatically configure any images from
sanity itself to provide Gatsby image
data as part of the transformer plugin.
So there are a lot of
tools that will do that,
like sanity is one of them,
contentful is another one.
And there's a list of a few more that
you can find on the Gatsby image docs.
As well as a guide on how to do that in
your own transformer plugins if you wanna
add a add a source for your own.
If you're working on a headless CMS or
an API and
you want Gatsby to be able to pull it
in with automatic image optimization.
There's a tutorial you can follow
on how to do that as well.
Cool, so we've got this query,
now we can use it.
Let's export default function,
sanity episode,
that's gonna be the name of our component.
And we're gonna get data,
that data is the result of this query.
So if I wanted to, I could just return pre
JSON.stringify data, null 2, right?
And then, I need to close my parentheses,
let's put this in the layout, just so
it looks somewhat usable.
Alright, so Gatsby images yeah defined but
never used, that's okay, let's get a list.
Let's see what happened, so here's my 404,
we didn't actually build the pages.
So we're going to stop and restart
cuz we created that new dynamic page.
So we actually need Gatsby to run again to
detect that and you can see here now that,
now, sanity is giving info as well.
So we can see that it's pulling in
information and dropping it in.
And so when I refresh this page, now we
have 242 pages instead of the original,
because it created all of
these different pages.
So let's click into one of these and
look at that, there's all of our data.
So this, we've dynamically
created all of these pages and
because we wrote In this query.
We now, have access to all the sanity data
for that episode in the component itself.
So what I'm able to do then,
is I can take the,
let's simplify this a bit,
we'll get the episode and
that'll be data sanity episode.
Not capitalized though there, all right?
And then inside here,
you can set a title of episode title.
You can set a description
of episode description,
we could set the image,
I'm not gonna worry about it.
So instead Let's set up Gatsby image and
what I wanna do here is we're
going to set the image.
Is going to be episode image
asset Gatsby image data and
the alt is going to be the episode title.
Then, we can do NH1
with the episode title.
All right, let's do a paragraph tag and
we'll see when it was posted,
so sorry, posted not episode.
Posted on episode, date and
then let's see here.
Drop in the description,
so episode description.
Okay, then what we can do is, let's
just add some details about this, right?
So we've got in here, if you wanna
watch this on the original show.
We can link out to the site so
learn with Jason dot Dev and
then drop it slug current, right?
And then, like full episode and
details and
then underneath that,
we can add another one that.
What if we just wanna
watch this on YouTube?
We can say HTTPS go to U2.B,
which is the shortcut and then,
we can do episode.YouTube ID.
And that'll take you
right to the the episode
on YouTube and say watch on YouTube.
All right, so
that's like an episode component, right?
So let's see what happened,
bang, look at that,
with very little custom code we
just wrote some markup, right?
We didn't have to dig into internals,
we didn't have to figure
out where data lives.
We didn't have to really do a lot, we were
able to just use this graph QL explorer to
figure out what data look like.
And then build a page out, so again,
this is a really slick way to get
a lot of data in very short order.
I find this to be a really compelling
reason to lean on Gatsby when I'm
trying to build something.
If I need to get something up quickly
Gatsby's a good way to do that you
were able to very quickly
plug in whatever data source.
Write some react,
you know what the data is gonna look
you don't have to figure out like.
What's the difference between the way
that like air table's API works and
the way that Contentful's API works.
I don't have to care because
when they come into Gatsby,
they look exactly the same.
They're nodes,
I'm gonna query those nodes,
I'm gonna filter them based on
predictable filters that Gatsby provides.
And I'm gonna show those as pages,
same workflow, whether it's MDX or
images or sanity data or
something entirely different.
That predictability is a big boost for
using Gatsby,
it's a big reason to steer
into Gatsby as a tool.